### 3.1. Classes for single quantity values
The most general expression for quantities is the class [Quantity numerical value](#QuantityValue), defined just as a superclass of more specific classes which differ mainly in the way they express the numerical value and measurement uncertainty.

Single numerical variables can belong to the class [Real](#Real) or to the class [Complex](https://ptb.gitlab.io/dcc/ontology-d-si/#Real). Complex variables can be expressed in [Cartesian form](#ComplexCartesian) (with the same kind of quantity on both components) or in [polar form](#ComplexPolar) (where the second component, the phase angle, is dimensionless and accepts only angular units). Additionally, the class [Constant](#Constant) was defined for variables with a fixed value, which are usually assigned a standard uncertainty, in contrast to measured variables, which are normally assigned an expanded uncertainty (to stress the measurement confidence).

Reals and constants are assigned a single [numerical value](#hasValue). Complexes have either [real](#hasValueReal) and [imaginary](#hasValueImag) components, or a [magnitude](#hasMagnitude) and a [phase](#hasPhase). All these properties accept a numerical value, preferably a `xsd:double`, including infinity???

The [kind of quantity](#hasQuantityType) is expressed via an object property linking an entry from an external terminology, preferably the SI Reference Point (only for fundamental quantities) or QUDT (for most quantities).

The measurement unit can be expressed in two ways: either [as a string](#hasUnitIdentifier) formatted conform to the `siunitx` syntax, or [as a link to an entry](:hasSIMeasurementUnit) from an external terminology. We recommend hoosing the SI Reference Point, which is able to automatically generate any compound unit (such as `Joule/Kelvin mole`). The two writing systems are equivalent, as the same platform is able to convert among them.

Other attributes common to all these classes are a [time stamp](#hasDateTime), a human-readable [label](#hasLabel) and the [number of significant digits / position of the least significant digit](#hasSignificantDigit).

### 3.2. Classes for multiple quantity values
Multiple measurement variables, or series of measurements of the same variable, can be expressed with list-like objects. SIS covers the following cases: a [list of real values](#RealList), a [list of complex values](#ComplexList), as well as a [list of lists](), which can contain other lis-like objects and can be used in an iterative way. The components of a list-like object, [real value in list](#RealInList) and [complex value in list](#ComplexInList), differ to the single-valued types in that they inherit some attributes (such as the measurement unit) from the list and thus need no separate unit annotation.


### 3.3. Uncertainty declarations
A [measurement uncertainty](#MeasurementUncertainty) is expressed via a complex object grouping many attributes. Depending on dimensionality, it can be [univariate](#MeasurementUncertaintyUnivariate) (for a single real value), [bivariate](#MeasurementUncertaintyBivariate) (for a single complex value) or [multivariate](#MeasurementUncertaintyMultivariate) (for a list of values). or [multivariate2](#ListMeasurementUncertaintyUnivariate)?????

An univariate uncertainty declaration can be reported in three ways: [standard](#StandardMU), i.e. expressed by the standard deviation (common practice for constants); [expanded](#ExpandedMU), i.e. expressed by the standard deviation multiplied by a [coverage factor](#hasCoverageFactor) $k>1$ to increase the confidence (common practice for measured values); [confidence interval](#CoverageIntervalMU), expressed by a [minimum](#hasIntervalMin) and [maximum](#hasIntervalMax) value. Depending on the type, the corresponding uncertainty value ([standard](#hasValueStandardMU) or [expanded](#hasValueExpandedMU)) is included, as well as the [coverage probability](#hasCoverageProbability) and underlying [probability distribution density]() where appropriate. All these attributes are also numeric, possibly with restrictions (minimum $<$ maximum, $u>0$, $k>1$, $0<P<1$).

A bivariate or multivariate uncertainty declaration is additionally specified by the shape of the uncertainty region, either [ellipsoidal](#EllipsoidalRegion) or [rectangular](#RectangularRegion). The uncertainty value (standard or expanded) is expressed in form of a symmetric [covariance matrix](#CovarianceMatrix), where each [entry](#Covariance) contains a value, a unit (product of the units of the factors, often equal) and two indexes.

